# Magnetic Chronograph

### Project Summary
A small, lightweight, and easy to use chronograph to be mounted on the muzzle of a rifle, with an LCD screen that can be placed nearby on a bench.

### Project Inspiration
Shooting chronographs are an integral part of the hand loading process for high powered rifle ammunition for multiple reasons, Not only will it help with knowing the energy, range and ballistics of a load, but the consistency of muzzle velocities is a direct indicator of how consistent the flight of the bullet will be, and therefore its accuracy.

Typical optical chronographs, like the [Chronys](http://www.shootingchrony.com/products_SCMMCM.htm), are susceptible to ambient light condition inerference, and are also difficult or impossible to set up and use at a public shooting range. In seeking an alternative to these products, I came across the [MagnetoSpeed](http://www.magnetospeed.com/products/chronographs/); a bayonet-style attachment using magnetic fields to detect the bullet instead of a light sensor. After some intrigue, sticker shock set in as the cheapest version is almost $200. After some discussion with my dad and consideration, the idea of making a little project out of making my own was born.

### Overview/Theory
The idea behind any electric chronograph is simple: a signal is generated by the bullet passing over two identical sensors some known distance apart, and the time between passing the first and second sensor is measured. With this information, it's as simple as speed = distance / time.

To know an accurate distance, the bayonet-style mount can be 3D printed to fix sensor placement to the resolution of the printer. The roughest of 3D printers can typically print with a resolution under 1 mm, which at 6 inches is just 0.66% error. To measure time, a typical microcontroller can easily run a clock at 1 MHz, providing a resolution of 1 µs. The highest muzzle velocities seen are under 5000 fps, which would travel 6 inches in 100 µs. At these extreme conditions, this relatively slow clock produces only a 1% error. The cumulative error between distance and time measurments at this worst case is 1.6%, but this can bedrastically reduced by increasing clock speed, distance between sensors, and measuring at more typical velocities (~3000 fps).

The only question this leaves is a very important one: how do we actually sense the bullet? As already mentioned, optical sensors are subject to ambient light conditions, and other objects blocking the sensor. However, copper and lead, the metals in most bullets, are not magnetic or even ferrous, so how can we sense them magnetically? Electromagnetic induction. While copper and lead are not ferrous, they are conductive. When a conductive material experiences a change in magnetic flux, such as passing through a static magnetic field produced by a permanent magnet, it will produce currents to counteract this change in magnetic flux, as currents produce a magnetic field. What this means is that a bullet passing through a magnetic field will briefly produce an opposite magnetic field counteracting the one it is passing through. If we had a sensor that could detect a magnetic field (like a hall effect sensor or a megnetoresistive sensor), then it could be placed in this static field, and any brief change can be detected and used to start or stop a counter.
