## Part Decisions

### Microcontroller
The two microcontrollers I'm considering are the TI MSP series and the Teensy Arduino boards. This is due to small size, low power, and ease of flashing/debugging. The MSP boards have on board debugging that is supported in TI'd IDE Code Composer, allowing you to step through instructions of programs and view registers as it runs. Teensy uses the Arduino IDE, which can use a serial console to communicate with the microcontroller as it is running. All of them are flashable by USB on their fairly small development boards for prototyping.

Clock speed is probably the most critical factor, as that determines the resolution available for timing, a faster clock will yield a more accurate measurement of the time it take the bullet to travel between the two sensors. At 180 MHz, that's about 5.5 ns resolution. ADC speed may or may not be important, depending on how I want to read the magnetic sensors. A fast ADC would allow me to read the voltage of the sensor directly (maybe after amplification) and use a software defined threshold to determine when the bullet passes. The other option is to use a comparator with a reference voltage generated by the microcontroller DAC to get the same software defined threshold. Otherwise, a digital magnetic sensor can be used, delivering a digital high/low signal based on an internal threshold. This would provide the microcontroller with less information, but it should still be sufficient for this appplication, and it would be simpler to implement. This input would be put on an interrupt to avoid having to poll the input and potentially miss a signal.

| Microcontroller | MSP430 | MSP432P4 | Teensy 3.2 | MSP432E4 | Teensy 3.6 |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Clock Speed | 16 MHz | 48 MHz | 72 MHz | 120 MHz | 180 MHz |
| ADC speed | 200 ksps | 1 Msps | 200 ksps | 2 Msps | 200 ksps |
| Debugging | TI IDE | TI IDE | Serial console | TI IDE | Serial console |

### Sensor
Hall effect vs. magnetoresistive. A good summary of the two was found [here](https://www.digikey.com/en/articles/techzone/2013/nov/proximity-sensing-options-part-2-magnetic-sensors) and [here](https://www.sensorsmag.com/components/a-case-study-mr-vs-hall-effect-for-position-sensing), and can be boiled down for this appolication to magnetoresistive sensors are more sensitive, and can be used in applications where the magnet is farther from the sensor, which is desirous here as getting withing mm of the bullet path provides obvious risks to the components. Reed switches are mechanical, and the response time would be limiting in this application compared to a solid state device like hall effect or magnetoresistive. Variable Reluctance Sensors would be ideal for this application as they require higher speeds, and are generally robust in harsh environments, however they are large and relatively expensive. [This](https://www.electronicproducts.com/Sensors_and_Transducers/Sensors_and_Transducers/Reed_vs_Hall_vs_VR.aspx) is a good comparison of technologies as well.

Both of these sensors come in digital and analog variants. The analog ones produce one or more voltages directly relating to the strength and angle of the magnetic field present. Digital sensors give a single high/low TTL signal according to the strength of the magnetic field relative to some internal threshold.

### Magnet
ceramic vs. neodymium

### LCD Screen

### Sensor to Screen Connector
3 or 4 connector 3.5 mm audio jack, depending on serial communication used by screen. Or power, ground, and input from sensors and put microcontroller with screen.

### Battery
9V - easy to use/replace, should last a long time
Coin - much smaller packaging, might still be plenty for running a low power MCU?
